#### Intelligent computers vs humans' prediction

Traditional methods of writing an algorithm were dependent on factors such as memory/hardware limitation. Due to sheer advancement in technology, many groups have started working on artifical intelligence in recent times which use machine learning algorithms and multiple machines for neural networks and parallel processing. 

There are multiple board games which have numerous possible paths or outcomes. Simulating such a game is now possible with AI which was earlier impossible using traditional search trees using low-speed computation systems. One of such games is AlphaGo, which has been regraded as the most complex and intricate game in the world. It has arguably 10^170 possible configurations which is more than the total atoms in the universe and 10^100 times more complex than chess. 

To simulate such behaviours of a game, Google and DeepMind implemented numerous layers of deep neural networks that are made up of artificial nuerons capable of processing and analysing large set of inputs and outputs at amazing speeds. These in turn predict numerous outcomes at blazing speed which humans are incapable of in stipulated time period. The game was played many times between computers, each time adopting new strategy and learning from previous mistakes. After many amateur games were introduced to humans, AlphaGo had it’s turn. It played against Fan Hui, a Go professional and 3-time European champion. And it was AlphaGo’s first win, easily beating at 5-0. A few months later, 200 million people watched as AlphaGo took a victory against professional player Lee Sedol, holder of 18 world titles and the fourth highest ranked Go player in the world in a five game competition: 4–1. This was a monumental breakthrough in the field of AI and shook the world of Go. This game earned AlphaGo a 9 dan rating, with 9 being the highest possible rating only a professional Go player can hold. AlphaGo is the first computer to ever be recognized at such a level of Go.

This is an instance of a computer program surpassing human intelligence and predictions. With more advancement in AI, it’s now possible to revolutionize the traditional methodologies thus creating new ideas and benchmarks. 
